Hello and welcome back to that advance
course on Tableau. In the previous
tutorial, we successfully finalized the
blend and today we're going to take
advantage of the blended data and
creating new calculated field and what
we're going to be doing is we're going
to take the turnover for the industry
which we can see here in this case is
for New South Wales and we're going to
divide it by the population for New
South Wales and also you can see that
we've got the population graph here so
we have data on how the population
is changing and we chose to take
advantage of the yearly population so
we're substituting the population in
every month with the March population
for that year. So we're going to
basically take the information in this
graph and divide it by the information in this
graph and getting new calculated field
so we're going to divide turnover by population
and that will leave us with sales per
capita and to achieve this we're going
to have to work with two data sets so
these two data sets which are within a
blend so are calculated field is
actually going to be a calculated field
across two separate data sets within
a blend and as you recall from the basic
course on Tableau we've already
discussed this topic and we already know
how to create these calculated fields
and therefore that knowledge will
definitely come in handy. So let's get
down to work, in order to create a
calculated field across blend we have to
first select one of the elements of our
calculations in this case will be
turnover will right-click it and select
create calculated field right and here
we're going to say we want to take
turnover and we want to divide it by population so,
we're going to go back to the population
source which is this data set over here
and we're going to take population and
drag it here. Now we might need a quick
refresher on what's going on
so where as you can see once I drag
population in it automatically sum the
population bearable and what you can see
here is also it
Tableau added this prefix, so this prefix
tells you where this
column is coming from and that is this data
set and the sum is here because of the
way the blend works and that is first
before the blend is conducted Tableau
sense queries to both datasets and then
asks the datasets to aggregate the data
to the level of aggregation in the view
and then once the data has come back
only then the two datasets are joined which
is called the blend and therefore there
has to be an aggregation when you are
creating calculated field across a blend
you have to have an aggregation here
because the data is already aggregated
and that is exactly why we have an error
here because one field is aggregated and
so does the other one have to be so we
have to put an aggregation here in this
case is going to be sum as well. Sum
meaning it will the elements or the rows
have to be summed to the level of
aggregation in this view which is in our
case monthly. Okay so we've got sum of
turnover divide it by sum of population and we're
going to call this sales per capita and
will click ok. Now as you can see, it
hasn't appeared here but that's because
we're in the secondary data source if we
go to the primary then we got sales per
capita here and now we just take sales
per capita and we're going to replace
sum of turnover with sales per capita.
It's going to take a few seconds to
calculate,
and now we can also get rid of just sum
of population because we don't need that.
Oh in fact, as you can see the values
are very small and that is because we're
taking we're dividing turnover
expressed in millions of dollars so what
we can do is we can right click and edit
and we can say take all of this and
multiply it by 1 million. That way we'll
be measuring sales per capita in terms
of dollars rather than millions of
dollars and there we go so now we can
see that this is a proper figuring out.
Now we can fix about filter change this
and return Queensland, Victoria and Western
Australia. There we go, so now we've got
the new charts. This is kind of you can
call it the normalized chart so it
doesn't tell you the total sales like
this industry analysis chart over here
it actually tells you the sales per
capita and now we can rename this so
we'll say sales per capita and ok so
what can we see what is the difference
between the two charts in industry
analysis we can see that this state is
has an upward trend and the p-values
less than 0.0001 meaning that it is
statistically significant trend. Here
there's also an upward trend, here is an
upward trend and here is also upward trend.
So all the industries all of the states
have upward trends in relation to total
ternal but now when we've divided by the
population what we can see is there's
still an upward trend here and still an
upward trend here but in these two states
and Queensland and Western Australia here you
don't have an upward trend if anything
this is a downward sloping line of
course the p-value is quite high so it
is 0.95 is very high so that means we
can't rely on this result is not
statistically significant but at the
same time
what is this is showing us is that the
upward trend that we did have is no
longer present and that means that what
we saw in the previous chart the
industry analysis that upward trend may
have been attributed
attributable to the growth in population
rather than just people spending more on
the products of this industry and
Western Australia what we see here once
again, we'd still have a bit of an upward
trend but the p-value is higher now 0.08
so it might, you might consider it
statistically significant but as you can
see it's a much flatter now than it used
to be and once again so that means that
probably in the Queensland and Western
Australia what we saw these upward
trends were predominantly attributable
to the growth in population and
therefore more people were spending more
money in
sum and total rather than each
and in each individual person spending
more and more over time whereas what we
see in these two states in New South
Wales and Victoria is that the
industries itself is growing so
regardless of population size the
industry itself is growing. Another thing
now is that we can compare the different
states among each other, so here we
couldn't do that because as you can see
the axis were completely had completely
different ranges and that's because
simply there are more people in New South
Wales and Victoria than there are in
Queensland and Western Australia but now if
we go back to this chart you can see
that the axis ranges here we can even
keep them uniform right? So we can keep
them uniform across all of them because
they are normalized, we've divided it by the population and
now this is actually how much people are
spending. So if anything we can just even
take state out and we'll get of course
this chart is much more cluttered but we
can actually compare them side-by-side
like that. So I'm just going to return
state because it's more it's easier
to understand this way and easier to see
and so what can we see we can see that
overall people are spending more of
course in New South Wales and Victoria.
We can see that just simply by looking
at this chart so for instance here it's
63.53, here at 63.72 so
these two states are very similar in
that sense I hear people are spending
less than fifty dollars per person per
month on in this industry in both
Queensland and Western Australia. So that is
how we analyze these charts and that
is the advantage that per capita
calculation can give us. It gives us a
clearer picture and allows us to achieve
some or derive some insights that are
more relevant to our task at hand and
that is investigating the business
environment within each of these states
to understand where the expansion should
happen. So the conclusion here would be
that first of all, out of these other
three states that the business is not
currently operating in Victoria has the
upward trend so the industry is actually
growing in Victoria and also we would
say that out of these three states
Victoria is the most similar the
business environment is the most similar
to New South Wales so you can see that the
trends are questionable, so they are both upward trends
and also which you can see is that the
price or the amount spent per capita is
greater than fifty dollars only in
Victoria just like in a New South Wales.
So in from both of those points of view
Victoria is the better state to consider
for the expansion and that brings us to
the end of today's tutorial. In the next
tutorial, we're going to talk about the
next step that we need to take and that is how to
add forecasting flow charts and I look
forward to seeing you next time and
until then, happy analyzing.